In this video, we'll cover TypeScript
loops and arrays.
So, in TypeScript, we can make use of for loops.
So, I have this file here, loops.ts, I set up a for loop,
I let i equal zero, i is less than five, i plus plus,
then I can simply print out that value using console.log i.
So, we simply compile the code using tsc,
and then we just run it using the node command,
so node loops.js running that JavaScript code.
And then, this will give us the desired output,
just like you would expect
in any other programming language.
We can also use a for loop to loop over an array of numbers.
All right, so what I'll do here is I'll declare an array,
so this is an array for reviews
number, square brackets, so that's for our array.
And we can give it some initial values here,
and then I'll simply set up a for loop, let i equal zero,
i is less than reviews.length, i plus plus,
then I simply print out that given review,
so console.log reviews sub i, so that's how we kind of index
into the given array.
So then, we simply compile and run the code
and, all right, and so we get the desired output.
Looks pretty good.
And we can also use for loops
and perform math operations.
So, in this example I'll compute
the average of the reviews.
So, here I'll let total number equal zero,
and then I have for i equals zero,
i is less than reviews.length,
console.log reviews sub i.
And here I say total plus/equal reviews sub i,
so this is the same thing as saying total equals total
plus reviews sub i.
So, I have the total of the reviews here,
and then I can compute the average
by saying average equals total divided by reviews.length,
and then I simply display that output.
And then, this will give us the results here,
so the review average equals 3.7.
So now, we have arrays.
We can set up an array of sports,
so let sportsOne string, square brackets,
and I give a list of sports,
"Golf", "Cricket", "Tennis", "Swimming".
And then, I say let i equal zero,
i is less than sportsOne.length, i plus plus
console.log sportsOne sub i.
So again, we're simply indexing into the array
and we'll print out whatever string element is there,
so we'll print out those given sports
that are defined in this array.
And they also have the simplified for loop syntax.
So, here we have our array of strings,
but now I can say for let tempSport of sportsOne,
so notice the "of."
And then, I build console.log on tempSport.
So, that will give me the current array element,
so not the index, like the i or whatever,
the actual element itself.
So, here we get the desired output,
golf, cricket, tennis, swimming.
So, the simplified for loop
that you've seen in other programming languages.
And then, we can also make use of conditionals
in our for loops.
So, here the code from the previous slide,
but I'm just adding in a new section here.
So, I'll say if tempSport equals "Cricket",
then that's our conditional.
Here I'll say console.log to tempSport plus "My Favorite!"
I love cricket.
Else, we simply print out the score.
And so, when we run this one we'll see golf,
cricket, my favorite!
And then, tennis and swimming.
All right, so let's look at growable arrays.
So, arrays in TypeScript are always growable,
always dynamic.
So, here we set up this file,
sportTwo sting, square brackets,
"Golf", "Cricket", "Tennis".
And then, I do a sportsTwo.push on "Baseball",
so here we're adding elements to the array.
And in sportsTwo.push "Futbol".
And I can continue adding as many elements here
as I like, the array will grow accordingly.
And then, I have a simple for loop here,
I'll just go through and print out
the contents of the array using
the let tempSport of sportsTwo,
and that also give me golf, cricket,
tennis, baseball, and futbol.
Alrighty, so some really good examples.
Let's go ahead and move into our IDE
and let's write some code.